
**************************************************************************
*                  First International Workshop on                       *
*       Open and Original Problems in Software Language Engineering      *
*                             OOPSLE 2013                                *
*                       http://oopsle.github.io/                         *
*                                                                        *
*                          October 16, 2013                              *
*                   - Co-located with WCRE 2013 -                        *
*                          Koblenz, Germany                              *
**************************************************************************

                   *** CALL FOR POSITION PAPERS ***                     


The OOPSLE workshop is a discussion-oriented and collaborative forum for
formulating and addressing with open, unsolved and unsolvable problems in
software language engineering.

"Software languages" comprise all kinds of artificial languages used in
software development: for programming, markup, pretty-printing, modelling,
data description, formal specification, evolution, etc. Software language
engineering is a relatively new research domain of systematic, disciplined
and measurable approaches of development, evolution and maintenance of
such languages.

** Submission **

You are invited to submit a position paper up to 4 pages in length,
sketching an open or original problem, idea or challenge. Each paper must
contain a brief summary of its main idea and a set of open questions to be
discussed with the audience. Submissions are screened by the workshop
chairs, who will select papers based on potential for discussion and
interest to the community, as well as the clarity of presentation and
motivation, but not on the conclusiveness of the work (OOPSLE is not a
mini-conference). After the workshop, all participants will be invited to
submit a full paper to a special issue of the Electronic Communications of
the EASST, an open access peer-reviewed journal (negotiations underway),
which will be peer reviewed.

For further information, see the webpage at

     http://oopsle.github.io

During the workshop, presenters will ask for input on how to proceed with
experiments, validation or refinement of their ideas, collect opinions on
the presented definitions, share similar experience. We expect the
participants to be friendly but inquisitive, and ask hard questions back
that may lead to deepening the initially presented insights. The workshop
is planned to have short presentations and long discussions to stimulate
direct collaboration afterwards.

OOPSLE will also feature a keynote by Prof. Dr. Ralf Laemmel, titled "An
Annotated and Illustrated Bibliography on Software Language Engineering".

** Dates **

Submission deadline: Sep 25, 2013
Notification:        Oct 1, 2013
Workshop:            Oct 16, 2013

** Relevant topics (non-exhaustive) **

* Defining an unsolved problem by establishing both its provenance in
  prior research and the lack of a fully satisfactory solution.

* Identifying new problem areas in software language engineering that have
  not been previously studied due to lack of understanding, techniques,
  practical interest or scalability issues.

* Engaging in technological space travel by identifying similar problems
  in various sectors of software language engineering (i.e., grammarware,
  modelware, ontoware, XMLware, databases, spreadsheets, etc).

* Proposing systematic methods of assessment and comparison of existing
  and emerging solutions to a problem that is not or cannot be fully
  solved (e.g., choosing between parsing techniques, metaprogramming
  methodologies, software language workbenches). Designing open datasets
  to facilitate these methods.

* Making an overview of major hindrances hindering solution of a standing
  problem (e.g., tool interoperability and reuse, tackling language and
  metalanguage diversity and versatility, consistency management).

* Constructing future community experiments and considering topics our
  community expects to see addressed by such a competition, if one decides
  to run it in the future.

** Workshop chairs **

* Anya Helene Bagge <anya@ii.uib.no>, University of Bergen, Norway
* Vadim Zaytsev <vadim@grammarware.net>, CWI, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
